一、Demo(示例)01 - quotchap
\documentclass{book}
\renewcommand{\quotefont}{\bfseries\ttfamily}
\renewcommand{\qauthorfont}{\rmfamily\itshape}
\usepackage{quotchap}
\begin{document}
\begin{savequote}
---When shall we three meet again
in thunder, lightning, or in rain?

---When the hurlyburly’s done,
when the battle’s lost and won.
\qauthor{Shakespeare, Macbeth}
Cookies! Give me some cookies!
\qauthor{Cookie Monster}
\end{savequote}
\chapter{down to}
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do. Once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Alice, "without pictures or
conversations?"
\end{document}

内容讲解
1.\usepackage[]{quotchap}的可选参数用于设置章节数字字体. 改宏包用于对chapter标题添加引用语. 可选参数列表: grey/nogrey/avantgarde/beramono/berasans/beraserif/biolinum/bookman/charter等

2.\begin{savequote}...\end{savequote}用于章节标题前的引用内容

3.\qauthor{}用于指定引用内容作者, 位于引用内容右下角

4.\quotefont用于指定引用内容的字体, 默认为slshape

5.\qauthorfont用于指定引用内容作者字体, 默认为upshape. 当\quotefont设置时, 默认为\quotefont的值




二、Demo(示例)02 - titlesec
\documentclass{book}
\usepackage[sf,bf,tiny]{titlesec}
\begin{document}
\titlelabel{\thetitle.\quad}
\titleformat*{\subsection}{\itshape}
\part{part-one}
\chapter{chapter-one}
\section{section-one}
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do. Once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Alice, "without pictures or
conversations?"

\section{section-two}
So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

\chapter{chapter-two}
\section{section-three}
There was nothing so very remarkable in that, nor did Alice think it so
very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh dear! Oh
dear! I shall be too late!" But when the Rabbit actually took a watch
out of its waistcoat-pocket and looked at it and then hurried on, Alice
started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take
out of it, and, burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after
it and was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole, under
the hedge. In another moment, down went Alice after it!

\section{section-four}
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down what seemed
to be a very deep well.

\part{part-two}
\chapter{chapter-three}
\section{section-five}
\subsection{subsection-one}
Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time, as she went down, to look about her. First, she tried to
make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything;
then she looked at the sides of the well and noticed that they were
filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and
pictures hung upon pegs.

\subsection{subsection-two}
She took down a jar from one of the shelves as
she passed. It was labeled "ORANGE MARMALADE," but, to her great
disappointment, it was empty; she did not like to drop the jar, so
managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.

\section{section-six}
Down, down, down! Would the fall never come to an end? There was nothing
else to do, so Alice soon began talking to herself. "Dinah'll miss me
very much to-night, I should think!" (Dinah was the cat.) "I hope
they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah, my dear, I wish
you were down here with me!" Alice felt that she was dozing off, when
suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry
leaves, and the fall was over.
\end{document}

内容讲解:
1.\usepackage[]{titlesec}用于引用titlesec宏包, 该宏包用于对目录标题进行个人定制化, 可选参数用于设置所有标题的字体, 列表如下:
	rm/sf/tt - font family, 默认为rm
	bf/md - font series, 默认为bf
	up/it/sl/sc - font shape, 默认为up
	tiny/small/medium/big - font size, 默认为big
	raggedright/center/raggedleft - align in horizontal, 默认为raggedright
	compact - 减少标题上/下部分的空白
	uppercase - 标题使用大写字母

2.\titlelabel{label_fmt}设置\section或\subsection及其子类标题的序号格式, 其中\thetitle代表当前\section或\subsection及其子类的序号. 默认为\titlelabel{\thetitle\quad}

3.\titleformat*{title_spec}{font_style}用于单独对某个指定层级的标题(适用于\section及其子类), title_spec用于指定某个详细等级标题(如\section); font_style为paragraph mode下的字体设置declaration指令(如\itshape)
	
4.\titleformat{cmd}[shape]{format}{label}{sep}{before_code}[after_code]对指定的层级标题进行样式设置
	cmd - 设置的样式标题层级(如: \section)
	shape - 使用预定义的各种标题样式. 列表如下:
		hang - 标题的label和标题文字在一行. 默认\section选项
		block - 类似于hang
		display - 标题的label和标题文字分两行显示. 默认\chapter选项
		runin - 标题和正文内容在同一行. 默认\paragraph选项
		leftmargin - 标题位于左margin(超出正文左边), 并且与后续内容重叠
		rightmargin - 类似于leftmargin, 不过位于右margin
		drop - 类似于leftmargin, 有标题的正文段落会进行缩进
		wrap - 类似于drop, 但缩进段落按照标题最长的部分
		frame - 类似于display, 但内容包含在frame中
	format - 设置标题的字体(style/size/align等)
	label - 标题的label内容设置(如: \thesection)
	sep - label与标题正文的分隔空间(shape hang中代表水平距离, shape display中代表垂直距离)
	before_code - 放置于标题正文之前的内容, 与标题正文位于同一行
	after_code - 放置于标题正文之后的内容, 位于标题正文的下一行 
		
5.\titlespacing*{cmd}{left_sep}{before_sep}{after_sep}[right_sep]用于设置标题周围的空白, *用于抑制标题下正文内容第一个段落的缩进
	cmd - 设定的标题层级(如: \section)
	left_sep - 标题左边缩进的宽度
	before_sep - 标题与上方内容间隔的垂直距离
	after_sep - 标题与正文内容间隔的垂直距离(shape runin为水平距离)
	right_sep - 标题右缩进的宽度



三、Demo(示例)03 - shorttoc
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage{shorttoc}
\begin{document}
\shorttoc{summary table of contents}{1}
\tableofcontents
\part{part-one}
\chapter{chapter-one}
\section{section-one}
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do. Once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Alice, "without pictures or
conversations?"

\section{section-two}
So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

\chapter{chapter-two}
\section{section-three}
There was nothing so very remarkable in that, nor did Alice think it so
very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh dear! Oh
dear! I shall be too late!" But when the Rabbit actually took a watch
out of its waistcoat-pocket and looked at it and then hurried on, Alice
started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take
out of it, and, burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after
it and was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole, under
the hedge. In another moment, down went Alice after it!

\section{section-four}
The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down what seemed
to be a very deep well.

\part{part-two}
\chapter{chapter-three}
\section{section-five}
\subsection{subsection-one}
Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time, as she went down, to look about her. First, she tried to
make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything;
then she looked at the sides of the well and noticed that they were
filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and
pictures hung upon pegs.

\subsection{subsection-two}
She took down a jar from one of the shelves as
she passed. It was labeled "ORANGE MARMALADE," but, to her great
disappointment, it was empty; she did not like to drop the jar, so
managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.

\section{section-six}
Down, down, down! Would the fall never come to an end? There was nothing
else to do, so Alice soon began talking to herself. "Dinah'll miss me
very much to-night, I should think!" (Dinah was the cat.) "I hope
they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah, my dear, I wish
you were down here with me!" Alice felt that she was dozing off, when
suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry
leaves, and the fall was over.
\end{document}

内容讲解
1.shorttoc宏包用于额外给内容创建一个sunmary目录

2.\shorttoc{toc_name}{depth}为创建目录的指令, toc_name为目录名称; depth为目录标题层级深度. 该指令必须位于\begin{document}之后, \tableofcontents之前



四、Demo(示例)04 - hyperref
% tex file(demo.tex)
\documentclass{book}
\usepackage[alllinkcolors=blue,pagebackref]{hyperref}
\begin{document}
\tableofcontents
\chapter{chapter-one}
\section{section-one}
    How to read a book was first published in the early months of 1940.
Alice was beginning\cite{how} to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the
bank, and of having nothing to do. Once or twice she had peeped into the
book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in
it, "and what is the use of a book," thought Alice, "without pictures or
conversations?"

So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could, for the
day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure of
making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and
picking the daisies, when suddenly a White Rabbit with pink eyes ran
close by her.

\section{section-two}
There was nothing so very remarkable in that, nor did Alice think it so
very much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to itself, "Oh dear! Oh
dear! I shall be too late!" But when the Rabbit actually took a watch
out of its waistcoat-pocket and looked at it and then hurried on, Alice
started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to take
out of it, and, burning with curiosity, she ran across the field after
it and was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit-hole, under
the hedge. In another moment, down went Alice after it!

The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way and then
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a moment to think
about stopping herself before she found herself falling down what seemed
to be a very deep well.

\chapter{chapter-two}
\section{section-three}
Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she had
plenty of time, as she went down, to look about her. First, she tried to
make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to see anything;
then she looked at the sides of the well and noticed that they were
filled with cupboards and book-shelves; here and there she saw maps and
pictures hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as
she passed. It was labeled "ORANGE MARMALADE," but, to her great
disappointment, it was empty; she did not like to drop the jar, so
managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she fell past it.

Down, down, down! Would the fall never come to an end? There was nothing
else to do, so Alice soon began talking to herself. "Dinah'll miss me
very much to-night, I should think!" (Dinah was the cat.) "I hope
they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea-time. Dinah, my dear, I wish
you were down here with me!" Alice felt that she was dozing off, when
suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry
leaves, and the fall was over.

\section{section-four}
Alice was not a bit hurt, and she\cite{dream} jumped up in a moment. She looked up,
but it was all dark overhead; before her was another long passage and
the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying down it. There was not a
moment to be lost. Away went Alice like the wind and was just in time to
hear it say, as it turned a corner, "Oh, my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!" She was close behind it when she turned the corner, but
the Rabbit was no longer to be seen.

She found herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of
lamps hanging from the roof. There were doors all 'round the hall, but
they were all locked; and when Alice had been all the way down one side
and up the other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

\chapter{chapter-three}
\section{section-five}
Suddenly she came upon a little table, all made of solid glass. There
was nothing on it but a tiny golden key, and Alice's first idea was that
this might belong to one of the doors of the hall; but, alas! either the
locks were too large, or the key was too small, but, at any rate, it
would not open any of them. However, on the second time 'round, she came
upon a low curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a
little door about fifteen inches high. She tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight, it fitted!

Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small passage, not
much larger than a rat-hole; she knelt down and looked along the passage
into the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of
that dark hall and wander about among those beds of bright flowers and
those cool fountains, but she could not even get her head through the
doorway. "Oh," said Alice, "how I wish I could shut up like a telescope!
I think I could, if I only knew how to begin."

\section{section-six}
Alice went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate, a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes. This time she found a little bottle on it ("which certainly
was not here before," said Alice), and tied 'round the neck of the
bottle was a paper label, with the words "DRINK ME" beautifully printed
on it in large letters.

"No, I'll look first," she said, "and see whether it's marked 'poison'
or not," for she had never forgotten that, if you drink from a bottle
marked "poison," it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later. However, this bottle was not marked "poison," so Alice ventured
to taste it, and, finding it very nice (it had a sort of mixed flavor of
cherry-tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey, toffy and hot buttered
toast), she very soon finished it off.

       *       *       *       *       *

\chapter{chapter-four}
\section{section-seven}
"What a curious feeling!" said Alice. "I must be shutting up like a
telescope!"

And so it was indeed! She was now only ten inches high, and her face
brightened up at the thought that she was now the right size for going
through the little door into that lovely garden.

After awhile, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going
into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! When she got to the
door, she found she had forgotten the little golden key, and when she
went back to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach
it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass and she tried\cite{how} her
best to climb up one of the legs of the table, but it was too slippery,
and when she had tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing
sat down and cried.

\section{section-eight}
"Come, there's no use in crying like that!" said Alice to herself rather
sharply. "I advise you to leave off this minute!" She generally gave
herself very good advice (though she very seldom followed it), and
sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears into her
eyes.

Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table:
she opened it and found in it a very small cake, on which the words "EAT
ME" were beautifully marked in currants. "Well, I'll eat it," said
Alice, "and if it makes me grow larger, I can reach the key; and if it
makes me grow smaller, I can creep under the door: so either way I'll
get into the garden, and I don't care which happens!"

She ate a little bit and said anxiously to herself, "Which way? Which
way?" holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way she was
growing; and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same
size. So she set to work and very soon finished off the cake.
\bibliographystyle{plain}
\bibliography{demo}
\end{document}

% bib file(demo.bib)
@BOOK{how,
    AUTHOR = "David R. Anderson and Dennis J. Sweeney and Thomas A. Williams",
    TITLE = "How to Read a Book",
    PUBLISHER = "Simon Schuster",
    YEAR = "1940"
}

@BOOK{dream,
    AUTHOR = "Mortimer J.Adler and Charles Van Doren",
    TITLE = "Statitics for Business and Economics",
    PUBLISHER = "South-Western College Pub",
    YEAR = "2010",
    EDITION = "11"
}

内容讲解
1.hyperref宏包用于目录到内容的链接/标签引用到标签标注点的链接/bibtex cite到文献列表item的链接, 可选参数列表如下:
	colorlinks=false - 使用字体颜色标注超链接. 默认为false(使用frame包围)
	bookmarks=false - 是否创建书签. 默认为true
	linkcolor=red - 设置目录超链接字体的颜色. 默认为red
	citecolor=green - 设置bibtex超链接颜色. 默认为green
	allcolors=blue - 设置所有超链接颜色
	linkbordercolor={1 0 0} - 设置目录超链接边框的颜色. 默认为1 0 0
	citebordercolor={0 1 0} - 设置bibtex超链接边框颜色. 默认为0 1 0
	allbordercolors={0 0 1} - 设置所有超链接边框颜色
	backref=false - 文献列表item到第一个引用该item的cite位置的链接. 默认为false
	pagebackref=false - 文献列表item到所有引用该item的cite的页面的链接. 默认为false
	**确保hyperref为最后一个导入的宏包
